In 1905, Alfred Grandidier's child, Guillaume Grandidier, inspected subfossil lemur scientific categorization and verified that such a large number of names had been made. His survey built up the greater part of the by and by known family and genera names for the terminated lemurs. Regardless of the ordered illumination, subfossil postcrania from various genera, especially "Megaladapis", "Palaeopropithecus" and "Hadropithecus", kept on being erroneously combined and now and then alloted to non-primates. Since subfossil remains were regularly dug from bogs one by one, blending skulls with different bones was frequently mystery dependent on size-coordinating, and was not exceptionally precise as an outcome. Indeed, even as late as the 1950s, bones of non-primates were ascribed to subfossil lemurs. One remaking of the jumbled subfossil stays by scientist Herbert F. Standing portrayed "Palaeopropithecus" as an oceanic creature that swam close to the surface, keeping its eyes, ears, and nostrils marginally above water. Postcranial stays of "Palaeopropithecus" had recently been combined with "Megaladapis" by Guillaume Grandidier, who saw it as a goliath tree sloth, which he named "Bradytherium". Standing's amphibian hypothesis was upheld by Italian scientist Giuseppe Sera, who recreated "Palaeopropithecus" as an "arboreal-oceanic gymnastic performer" that swam in water as well as climbed trees and bird from that point into the water. Sera took the oceanic hypothesis further in 1938 by including other terminated lemurs, including "Megaladapis", which he saw as a meager beam like swimmer that benefited from mollusks and shellfish while disguised submerged. It was fundamentally the scientist Charles Lamberton who effectively matched a large number of the befuddled subfossils, despite the fact that others had additionally helped location issues of affiliation and ordered equivalent words. Lamberton likewise invalidated Guillaume Grandidier's sloth hypothesis for "Megaladapis", just as the sea-going lemur hypothesis of Standing and Sera. 