The extratropical remnants of Nicole retained plenty of moisture and ultimately combined with a large low-pressure system slowly tracking up the U.S. East Coast. The resultant disturbance produced torrential thunderstorms over entire coastlines and inland as far north as Canada, causing widespread power outages and shattering numerous precipitation records throughout the region. The most extreme weather was concentrated over Eastern North Carolina; during the week of September 24–October 1, most communities there recorded rainfall totals of at least . Wilmington measured of rain, the most it had received over a five-day period since 1871, while Kinston recorded during that time. Widespread flooding, exacerbated by overflowing creeks and rivers, engulfed blocks of homes. About 150 roads were closed off due to the hazardous conditions; seven people were nonetheless killed in traffic accidents across the state.
In the Mid-Atlantic, the weather event broke the 24-hour rainfall record for September 30 at several locations: the Norfolk, Baltimore–Washington, and Ronald Reagan Washington airports recorded , , and , respectively. In Maryland, two buses collided amid the stormy weather, injuring 26 of their passengers. With localized estimates of up to , the state of New York experienced some of its most historic rainfall; an official total shattered the 24-hour record for any calendar day in Binghamtom. Flash floods throughout the state resulted in one drowning death and US$10,000 in damage. Considerable flooding also occurred in Vermont and Pennsylvania, with a 24-hour rainfall maximum of in Moscow. Farther north, the remnant low enhanced a pressure gradient over southern New England, generating strong winds that knocked out the power in Litchfield County. Rainfall there additionally caused minor flooding. In Quebec, torrents following of rainfall inundated basements and caused two drownings. Despite the deaths and damage, the rains lightened prolonged drought conditions in those regions.