Approximately 20% of students live on campus, and most students live on campus for at least a portion of their academic careers. students with fewer than 30 hours of academic credit are required to live in university housing unless they receive an exemption. Specific residence halls and communities exist for graduate students, athletes, and various specific interests and academic disciplines. Every resident on campus is a member of the Texas Tech Residence Hall Association which provides various on campus programming and leadership opportunities. RHA is led by an Executive Board and Senate with student representatives from each residence hall. The organization is also a member of the South West Affiliate of College and Universities Residence Halls.
International honor societies Phi Beta Kappa (liberal arts and sciences), Delta Epsilon Psi, Beta Gamma Sigma (business), and Tau Beta Pi (engineering) have chapters at the university. Professional, service, and social fraternities and sororities on campus include Alpha Phi Omega (service), Alpha Kappa Psi (business), Delta Sigma Pi (business), Alpha Omega Epsilon (engineering), Phi Alpha Delta (law), Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia (music), Kappa Kappa Psi (band), and Tau Beta Sigma (band). Professional development and research organizations hosted by the university include the Howard Hughes Medical Institute Undergraduate Research Fellowship Program, the Center for the Integration of Science Education and Research, the Society of Engineering Technologists, Student Bar Association, and the Texas Tech Forensic Union. Texas Tech is also the only Power Five university in Texas that is a Hispanic-serving Institution. Spirit organizations representing Texas Tech include the High Riders, Saddle Tramps, and the Sabre Flight Drill Team. Animal Rights Coalition at Texas Tech is also an active student organisation, coordinating animal welfare and environmental protection events. This includes holding the first Veg Week in West Texas at Texas Tech in 2017.