From 1909 to 1913, German expeditions of the Berlin Museum für Naturkunde uncovered a diverse dinosaur fauna from the Tendaguru Formation in German East Africa, in what is now Tanzania. Although commonly considered the most important African dinosaur locality, large theropod dinosaurs are only known through few and very fragmentary remains. In 1920, German paleontologist Werner Janensch assigned several dorsal vertebrae from the quarry "TL" to "Ceratosaurus", as "Ceratosaurus" sp. (of uncertain species). In 1925, Janensch named a new species of "Ceratosaurus", "C. roechlingi", based on fragmentary remains from the quarry "Mw" encompassing a quadrate bone, a fibula, fragmentary caudal vertebrae, and other fragments. This specimen stems from an individual substantially larger than the "C. nasicornis" holotype.
In their 2000 monograph, Madsen and Welles confirmed the assignment of these finds to "Ceratosaurus". In addition, they ascribed several teeth to the genus, which had originally been described by Janensch as a possible species of "Labrosaurus", "Labrosaurus" (?) "stechowi". Other authors questioned the assignment of any of the Tendaguru finds to "Ceratosaurus", noting that none of these specimens displays features diagnostic for that genus. In 2011, Rauhut found both "C. roechlingi" and "Labrosaurus" (?) "stechowi" to be possible ceratosaurids, but found them to be not diagnostic at genus level and therefore designated them as "nomina dubia" (doubtful names). In 1990, Timothy Rowe and Jacques Gauthier mentioned yet another "Ceratosaurus" species from Tendaguru, "Ceratosaurus ingens", which purportedly was erected by Janensch in 1920 and was based on 25 isolated, very large teeth up to in length. However, Janensch assigned this species to "Megalosaurus", not to "Ceratosaurus"; therefore, this name might be a simple copying error. Rauhut, in 2011, showed that "Megalosaurus ingens" was not closely related to either "Megalosaurus" or "Ceratosaurus", but possibly represents a carcharodontosaurid, instead.