A point by point PC investigation of the biomechanics of "Stegosaurus'" nourishing conduct was performed in 2010, utilizing two distinctive three-dimensional models of "Stegosaurus" teeth given reasonable material science and properties. Chomp compel was additionally determined utilizing these models and the realized skull extents of the creature, just as reproduced tree limbs of various size and hardness. The resultant chomp powers determined for "Stegosaurus" were 140.1 newtons (N), 183.7 N, and 275 N (for front, center and back teeth, individually), which implies its nibble drive was not exactly a large portion of that of a Labrador retriever. "Stegosaurus" could have effectively chomped through littler green branches, yet would have experienced issues with anything over 12 mm in breadth. "Stegosaurus", along these lines, most likely perused fundamentally among littler twigs and foliage, and would have been unfit to deal with bigger plant parts except if the creature was fit for gnawing substantially more productively than anticipated in this examination. Notwithstanding, an examination distributed on May 20, 2016 by Stephen Lautenschlager et al. specifies "Stegosaurus" nibble quality was more grounded than recently accepted. Correlations were made between it (spoken to by an example known as "Sophie" from the United Kingdom's Natural History Museum) and two different herbivorous dinosaurs; "Erlikosaurus" and "Plateosaurus" to decide whether each of the three had comparable chomp powers and comparable specialties. In light of the aftereffects of the investigation, it was uncovered that "Stegosaurus" had a chomp comparative in solidarity to that of present day herbivorous well evolved creatures, specifically, steers and sheep. In light of this information, it is likely "Stegosaurus" additionally ate woodier, harder plants, for example, cycads, maybe notwithstanding going about as a methods for spreading cycad seeds. The discoveries were distributed in the diary "Logical Reports". 