In "Brachiosaurus", this widening occurred gradually, resulting in a paddle-like shape, while in "Giraffatitan" the widening occurred abruptly and only in the uppermost portion. At both their front and back sides, the neural spines featured large, triangular and rugose surfaces, which in "Giraffatitan" were semicircular and much smaller. The various vertebral processes were connected by thin sheets or ridges of bone, which are called "laminae". "Brachiosaurus" lacked postspinal laminae, which were present in "Giraffatitan", running down the back side of the neural spines. The spinodiapophyseal laminae, which stretched from the neural spines to the diapophyses, were conflated with the spinopostzygapophyseal laminae, which stretched between the neural spines and the articular processes at the back of the vertebrae, and therefore terminated at mid-height of the neural spines. In "Giraffatitan", both laminae were not conflated, and the spinodiapophyseal laminae reached up to the top of the neural spines. "Brachiosaurus" is further distinguished from "Giraffatitan" in lacking three details in the laminae of the dorsal vertebrae that are unique to the latter genus.
Air sacs not only invaded the vertebrae, but also the ribs. In "Brachiosaurus", the air sacs invaded through a small opening on the front side of the rib shafts, while in "Giraffatitan" openings were present on both the front and back sides of the tuberculum, a bony projection articulating with the diapophyses of the vertebrae. Paul, in 1988, stated that the ribs of "Brachiosaurus" were longer than in "Giraffatitan", which was questioned by Taylor in 2009. Behind the dorsal vertebral column, the sacrum consisted of five co-ossified sacral vertebrae. As in "Giraffatitan", the sacrum was proportionally broad and featured very short neural spines. Poor preservation of the sacral material in "Giraffatitan" precludes detailed comparisons between both genera. Of the tail, only the second caudal vertebra is well preserved.