Bright stars were important to the ancient Polynesians for navigation between the many islands and atolls of the Pacific Ocean. Low on the horizon, they acted as stellar compasses. They also served as latitude markers; the declination of Sirius matches the latitude of the archipelago of Fiji at 17°S and thus passes directly over the islands each night. Sirius served as the body of a "Great Bird" constellation called "Manu", with Canopus as the southern wingtip and Procyon the northern wingtip, which divided the Polynesian night sky into two hemispheres. Just as the appearance of Sirius in the morning sky marked summer in Greece, it marked the onset of winter for the Māori, whose name "Takurua" described both the star and the season. Its culmination at the winter solstice was marked by celebration in Hawaii, where it was known as "Ka'ulua", "Queen of Heaven". Many other Polynesian names have been recorded, including "Tau-ua" in the Marquesas Islands, "Rehua" in New Zealand, and "Ta'urua-fau-papa" "Festivity of original high chiefs" and "Ta'urua-e-hiti-i-te-tara-te-feiai" "Festivity who rises with prayers and religious ceremonies" in Tahiti. The Hawaiian people had many names for Sirius, including "Aa" ("glowing"), "Hoku-kauopae", "Kau-ano-meha" (also "Kaulanomeha"), "Standing-alone-and-sacred", "Hiki-kauelia" or "Hiki-kauilia" (the navigational name), "Hiki-kau-lono-meha" ("star of solitary Lono", the astrological name), "Kaulua" (also "Kaulua-ihai-mohai", "flower of the heavens"), "Hiki-kauelia", "Hoku-hoo-kele-waa" ("star which causes the canoe to sail", a marine navigation name), and "Kaulua-lena" ("yellow star"). The people of the Society Islands called Sirius variously "Taurua-fau-papa", "Taurua-nui-te-amo-aha", and "Taurua-e-hiti-i-tara-te-feiai". Other names for Sirius included "Palolo-mua" (Futuna), "Mere" (Mangaia), "Apura" (Manihiki), "Taku-ua" (Marquesas Islands), and "Tokiva" (Pukapuka). In the cosmology of the Tuamotus, Sirius had various names, including "Takurua-te-upuupu", "Te Kaha" ("coconut fibre"), "Te Upuupu", "Taranga", and "Vero-ma-torutoru" ("flaming and diminishing").